# ASSESSMENT 2: Interview Practice Questions

Answer the following questions. First, without external resources. Challenge
yourself to answer from memory. Then, research the question to expand on your
answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own,
there is always something more to learn.

1. Why would you use the method super()?

Your answer: The super() method allows you to pass the methods from the parent
down to the child class component and allows the child class component to have
the full functionality of the parent class.

Researched answer: super() will call the constructor of its parent class.
super() is called inside a react component only if it has a constructor. However
if we have a constructor then super() is mandatory. This is required when you
need to access some variables from the parent class. In React, when you call
super with props. React will make props available across the component through
this.props

2. What is a virtual DOM?

Your answer: The virtual DOM allows a React app to update components in real
time without having to refresh the browser. The updates are affected by
behavior/actions of the user on a component that change the state of a component
in real time.

Researched answer: The virtual DOM (VDOM) is a programming concept where an
ideal, or “virtual”, representation of a UI is kept in memory and synced with
the “real” DOM by a library such as ReactDOM. This process is called
reconciliation.

3. When creating a basic (stateless) class component in React, what are the
   necessary elements needed to display "Hello World" in the browser?

Your answer: The render method is not necessary. Only the return is necessary,
like this: const ComponentName = () => { return ( <div> 'Hello World' </div> ) }

Researched answer: The literal difference between stateful and stateless
components is that one has state, and the other doesn’t. That means the stateful
components are keeping track of changing data, while stateless components print
out what is given to them via props, or they always render the same thing.

4. What is JSX?

Your answer: JSX is a hybrid of HTML and JS that allows JS to render HTML
elements to the browser withing a React component. It stands for JavaScript XML.

Researched answer: In React we are allowed to use normal JavaScript expressions
with JSX. To embed any javascript expression in a piece of code written in JSX
we will have to wrap that expression in curly braces {}. JSX is a form of markup
used in React. It looks very similar to HTML, but is converted to JavaScript
behind the scenes.

5. What is state in React?

Your answer: State an object that represents static data and behavior within a
React component.

Researched answer: The state is an instance of React Component Class can be
defined as an object of a set of observable properties that control the behavior
of the component. In other words, the State of a component is an object that
holds some information that may change over the lifetime of the component.

6. STRETCH: What is hoisting in JavaScript?

Your answer: Hoisting is when JS moves variable and function declarations up so
they can be used throughout the program even if declared after being used. (I
think...)

Researched answer: Hoisting is a term you will not find used in any normative
specification prose prior to ECMAScript® 2015 Language Specification. Hoisting
was thought up as a general way of thinking about how execution contexts
(specifically the creation and execution phases) work in JavaScript.
Conceptually, for example, a strict definition of hoisting suggests that
variable and function declarations are physically moved to the top of your code,
but this is not in fact what happens. Instead, the variable and function
declarations are put into memory during the compile phase, but stay exactly
where you typed them in your code.

## Looking Ahead: Terms for Next Week

Research and define the following terms to the best of your ability.

- React lifecycle methods: You can think of React lifecycle methods as the
  series of events that happen from the birth of a React component to its death.
  Every component in React goes through a lifecycle of events. I like to think
  of them as going through a cycle of birth, growth, and death.

I found a very useful diagram:
https://projects.wojtekmaj.pl/react-lifecycle-methods-diagram/

- React props: “Props” is a special keyword in React, which stands for
  properties and is being used for passing data from one component to another.
  Furthermore, props data is read-only, which means that data coming from the
  parent should not be changed by child components.

Another great diagram:
https://miro.medium.com/max/826/1*bsS8ETUQqgBpAoT2D6tjmw.png

- event.preventDefault(): React uses synthetic events to handle events from
  button, input and form elements. A synthetic event is a shell around the
  native DOM event with additional information for React. Sometimes you have to
  use event.preventDefault(); in your application.

- DOM events : HTML DOM events allow JavaScript to register different event
  handlers on elements in an HTML document. Events are normally used in
  combination with functions, and the function will not be executed before the
  event occurs (such as when a user clicks a button).

- MVC: MVC is short for Model, View, and Controller. MVC is a popular way of
  organizing your code. The big idea behind MVC is that each section of your
  code has a purpose, and those purposes are different. Some of your code holds
  the data of your app, some of your code makes your app look nice, and some of
  your code controls how your app functions.

MVC is a way to organize your code’s core functions into their own, neatly
organized boxes. This makes thinking about your app, revisiting your app, and
sharing your app with others much easier and cleaner.
